This is Terry Hanger, and I'm interviewing WC
Daniel Jr. from the Daniel Funeral Home here in
Bryan, Texas.
Born in the Boonville area. This day is known as
Route 3, Bryant. That was in February of 1927.
I don't know anything about the Boonville area
because when I found myself, I was in Bryant at 409
West 19th
Street. That's all I remember, of course, with
Francis Boonville in front. Since that time both
my parents have died, I've gotten good school, and
I got married. And that's just about
the gist of my whole life. Now, there are a few folks
here from Danville. There's, uh, I can remember
Jack Cannon, that dude was a man of years.
But
most of the old things have passed
on now that I still remember. Well, do you know
where your family came from before they were at
Booneville? My father? Yes. I don't. I think I know
his parents were in Alabama.
My mother was from Hearns,
throughout the county. She taught school. He was a
minister and a mortician. Good Lord, did he get the
salary that he needed to stay
away from the morticians. I graduated from
Southern University in 1947. I did further study
at Texas Southern University in Houston. I
graduated from the Pomeroy College of Motor
Science in 1948. I took the board in 48. I took my
apprenticeship under my father at the old
Anglican Home at 700 North Sterling. Of course,
after he passed, I built my own theater. I married
Mrs. She was a lioness. She was a Miss Lioness
Hospital at that time. That's from the first town
in the Wilcox
community. She's got a presence of teaching the
blind public schools.
Well, can you tell me, do you know anything about,
like, the farming? When you were in Boonesville,
was there farming around in that area? Yeah,
Boonesville was another first farm around. Can
you tell me, like, any new things that you have seen
in your lifetime, you know, that have progressed
the way the old farming practices were? Oh, yes, I
see. You know, we've gotten the way everything is
mechanized now. Of course, most of the folk that
were there during my time, They don't. I mean, they
moved. Those that left, they moved away. None of
the children are there anymore.
They moved away. Well, now you know how the
children are. They grew up. They want something.
They got to have a bright life. Some noise, anyway.
There's nothing else. So now they're going to be
the rural areas. Because I think I understand
there's a trend back to it. How have I got to see it?
When you first moved to Bryan, it wasn't this
developed. Oh no, Bryan was nothing like it is
today. Bryan wasn't even a city at that time. Can
you just tell me, you know, a few little things that
you remember the way it was?
Well... I heard something that there used to be a
lot of saloons on. ministry or something? Well, I
don't know. They've had no mouth in here. Oh,
really? Now, they get more progress than
anything, but we have grown to manage this thing
from a one-horse town to a two-horse town now. I
promise I'm safe. Well, what do you think is
causing it? Do you think it was the university or
it's just the railroad or the airport? No, I have to
attribute it to the university because the
railroad
didn't do that much of anything. I have to
attribute all the progress to the university. I
don't know if it would have been for the
university. At that time, you could... Let's get
my phone in the sun. Hello. Yes, I have a copy from
the college. My brother's here.
Oh,
well, you're talking about college now? You
attribute most of the development to college? As a
result of college being bad. Well, I heard
something that there used to be like a trolley car
or something that went from Brian to... Yes, there
was. I don't remember, but I'm saying there was a
trolley car system here. I do know one thing. That
was... watering trough for cattle in the middle of
Main Street. You might remember that. Everybody
wanted to get it moved. It never did move. My mother
ran over it. It was your mother then, huh? She never
tried to
I don't know what that was. Most likely it was a
scar. My dad used to leave him that scar. I don't
remember whether it was
that or not. But most likely he would have had a scar
because that's what he used to have all the time. I
don't remember whether it was that or not. What
about, do you know of any like influential
families that have helped out with growing and
development? Yes.
It's kind of like the history now.
The history books when we were in college and
things like Lincoln and Washington, they forget
about George Washington. Here we had, there was a
doctor here named
Dr. Mason, Dr. Allen, but even before that, there
was another very good doctor, Thompson, Dr. A. E.
Thompson. He was a great asset to this town.
Looks like he's passed on now. I'm going to tell you
how many years he's passed on now. But when you say
flu, H-R-B, flu, ain't it hard to put it? When you
say flu, H-R-B. your
interpretation
of the information that we left in from mine, see,
well, you would see Mick Dansby. I would perhaps
see Dave C. Dansby. Mm-hmm.
That's fine. That's
what my mind's like,
yeah. What the people that you think that really
stand out in your mind that you can remember that
meant something to you and you can see, you know,
you've known that they've done something to help
out this town. Or the people that... I think it was
Mr. Thomas. He was a great asset to this town. He is
past that now. One of the first gym establishments
we had was the Scott Place, which my daddy worked
for him when he started. My daddy was the first vice
in the morning. What about the cemetery of Bryan?
Is there just one main cemetery, or are they just
scattered out? No, we have two cemeteries right
here in the city. One is operated by the city of
Bryan, and the others are operated by no one now.
This one out here was going up until a few years ago.
We started raising sound about it. Like
everything else, we weren't getting what we
should have gotten. So we'll start pitching a fall
at the bottom line. We didn't get one. They're
keeping it now. That has been .
You mentioned earlier that one of the original
cotton gins was right here. In this same spot.
This is West 18th Street? Was it 18th Street? Yes,
it was 18th. Ever since you can remember? Yes. What
about the other cotton gin in town? It was right
where the food town is now. That's between Main and
Bryan on
the first of them. from the first group. Can you
tell me just a little bit about, do you remember
seeing it working? Oh, yes. I used to see a wagon of
cotton lined up block long. Yes, I remember those
days.
What was the last year that they used cotton? I
couldn't answer that. Did you ever pick cotton
yourself? No.
I never was fortunate to get out
there. Even though my grandfather, come on. My
grandfather had a, he farmed.
Now this still was incidentally. That's one of the
landmarks on the corner right there, by the way. It
has been there all this time, and that's the past of
it, not the present past of it. The other one passed
on. I'll come back and check with you later. Let's
chill in. He's trying to get some history of Brian.
He's been here about seven years, so he couldn't
tell you. History of Brian. Can you just tell me a
little bit of Like, maybe like a day of what you can
remember. The people at the cotton gin, like what
they wore, or... Same as you today, blue jeans.
Blue jeans? Really? See, see, old thing, why did
you folks today dress them up? You called them
Levi's. Yeah.
Of course, it's a ducky front. Mm-hmm. Were they
like overalls for you? No. It was kind of like an
apron, you know, with suspenders on it. What about
winning star clothing? I can't remember
just what they wore. I'm almost sure if they wore
anything, they wore more
than ladies' nightwear.
now
that's about all that i know about really
Well, has there ever been, like, any famous
person, like a famous news star or something
that's come to this area that really caused a big
commotion among the people? Like, everybody goes
down to see the person or
something. Can you think of any? No. I can't think
of a soul, because back there, if they came,
in those days, we couldn't go. If they could
naturally, we wouldn't be interested. We
couldn't go anywhere.
And it's just a little better now. Do you want to
elaborate just a little? Well, we can go now. Not
because every time we go, they want us to come. We
can't help themselves. See, there were times you
could have the money to buy one of those boats, but
you couldn't go in and buy one. Well, you might have
passed that back to them, but like I said, those
moose dogs, if they came, we wouldn't have gotten
to see them because they weren't welcome on it. Can
you remember that one? Oh, yes. Heck, yes. You
remember that, too. Yeah, that's been that long.
Uh-huh. It hasn't been that long. You from where?
What's your name? Colleen, Texas. Colleen,
Texas. Well, see, my father's in the Army, and we
just traveled all over. So I've never really
stayed in my place. Well, it's been the same
everywhere. It hasn't been too long since that has
changed. And really, it hasn't changed as much as
it should have changed now. But it's so much better
than it was. But we are, I don't know whether you're
going to say accepted. I don't think that would be
the word.
I think I could have thought like I said it then, but
now, of
course, no one can help themselves. What about the
politics of Brian Manning? Was there Democrats in
him, Republicans? Well, it's been mostly
Democrats as long as I can remember. That was a
Republican house, pardon me. Was your father a
Democrat? No. If I'm not mistaken, no man was kind
of leaning toward Republicans.
because he's about the only one in the family with
that. Democrats, I think. I say I think because I
have time to go for who he thinks best. I don't know
if he called me
a Democrat or not. One instance of George Wallace
going to run. That's what I mean by where the
There's a big bookstore on the corner. What's that
now on that corner? Drive-In
Bank, isn't it? There's a big bookstore there. I
remember it quite well, because I remember
getting rid of it that one day, and hopped a car, of
course. And something might have came out of the
bookstore, so I left off there. Let me tell
you about this. It's going to make me want to move.
So that's why
I remember the ducts were so wet. I forgot the name
of the place. What about the prejudice in Brian? Is
there a lot of prejudice? Can you remember ever
being a lot? There's still a lot. Was it worse back
then? Oh, yes, it was worse. Oh, yes, definitely.
Certainly. Can you remember, like you just said,
you gave me an example. Can you remember any other
times when it was really... Yes, we'd go to the
store, and you could go in the trolley dresser, you
know why, but my boy couldn't do it. You have to buy
it, and it's hoping it's going to fit. Yeah, that's
what I can't understand. That hasn't been too
long, because Neiman Marcus and those big stores,
they haven't been too long since they started
letting you try them on. You mean they just
wouldn't let you try them on? Hmm, my color was
wrong. You know, we get it there. I was working with
a lot
of them. Too long, I guess. That's still going on.
Not that bad now. They can't discriminate against
you now. But that's why I said she mentioned the OSB
because now they can't afford to. Well, even if we
have more, we have a little bit more sense now than
we had then. I'm talking about us black folks. I
said, used to you.
Didn't think I had a nice car. Mm-mm. So it is. It's
much better. Mm-hmm. And you being over at, uh,
Rosenberg, you ought to know a lot about it. Of
course, the smaller the town, the worse it was. But
I'll tell you one thing about it, though. When we
got ready to integrate the school system here, did
nobody look back. Just integrate. Boom. Of
course, during the time, as late as 71, I can
remember that quite well, because we'd been in
this thing until I was here working at the time, and
they were raising hell about the busing. I'm like a
fool. I just asked a question. I said, you mean the
bussing is wrong? Yeah, it's wrong. I said, well,
hell yeah, I was in it all my life. And it just got
wrong. That's why I say a lot of you folks don't have
no sense either. That was just in 71. What about
your public school that you went to? Was it an
all-black school? Yes, it was a campfire school. I
think it was a campfire school in 38. Was it a little
country school house, or was it public? It was a
public school right here. I was there. E.A. Kemp
High. We would get the Cleveland, as we do, a lot of
it being done now. We'd get the, in other words, if
we want the football uniform, we'd get what Brian
Hyde didn't want. They'd buy them some more. We'd
get that.
Now this, you know, as I talk with y'all, y'all seem
to think this is something new to y'all. Now y'all
know better than that. And
you, the Aggies, them sorry stonks used to come up
the road to get about 20 a brass. You got to get out
and let them by. That's the way they do it.
I don't know how long that has been, but that
happened. And back in those days, we may have seen
it to get one of these. Because we ain't got one time
to die. That's pretty nice. It's been a long time
learning that. He showed us the gun. And you'd be
surprised. We were friends. But we're just not
friends no more.
We get mad now sometimes because we think about how
we've... I went to service for a while. We went over
there to fight for you. Well, let's say with you.
And... Come back here and they want to kick us some
more. We're getting on and on. Not anymore. I think
the service helped us because that is the place
where we didn't mind. We don't want to die. We'd
rather live for the country than die for it. But
that's what we did. We got one time to die. And we got
that instilled in us. And it's in us today. Oh, you
still find a few of them that draw back. But life
just has to be real. I'd rather die standing up than
laying down. Excuse me. Let me ask you some more
about, like in restaurants, like in the movies,
I've seen where they have a white toilet for white
people. Can you remember anything about that?
Right here at your palace, we have a good stage
called the Buzzard Rooms if you want to see it.
There's a picture up there. If you want to see it,
you have to go upstairs.
I hadn't been too many years ago. I couldn't give
you the exact date. I'll say this, though. There
were a lot of the folk in this town that didn't want
to do, but they had to follow suit, too, you know. I
know your folk now. They weren't really afraid. I
believe they weren't. No, they weren't afraid.
They were scared. That's a difference. I think
it's different for blacks in a small town than
blacks that live in the Army post. Like, we always
lived with blacks, and I never felt... Well, you
had a little different culture. You had a
conglomerate culture, like at A&M. Now, if A&M
hadn't been out here when we got ready to
integrate, I don't think it would have been as
smooth as it was. And I think A&M was the... Not that
they said anything, just being there.
Now you say, well, if it helped that, why didn't it
help at Prairie? Prairie was five miles from
Hempstead. And all they did was let them vote to
what's the right now. They just did that. So, well,
I guess it's because it was a white college. I guess
that meant that Prairie was a black
college. Can you tell me anything about Prairie?
What do you want to know? Well, like... Anything
you know about it? Was it a big thing when they first
built it? Oh, I don't know when they first built it,
but it was about the biggest state school
that I grew up. See, it's still being run by the .
Of course, you have a few white students.
I know a few white people,
of course. What about, you said you attended
Southern? Oh, Southern University in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana.
How was it when you were in college? Well, it was all
black, too. But I went down there.
to a football game.
And they were in the middle of a strike. And I said to
myself, I'm going to school here any time black
folk get together and stick together. I said, I
need to be a part of . I
graduated fourth grade. What about, like, do they
have a fire department around here? Yes, I don't
know how, I can tell you when, when, where, and why,
because when I, as I remember, there was one there
then. Okay, the one you remember, did it have, was
it a truck or? I don't think you're old enough. The
one that I remember was a truck, yes. Did
they have black farming or?
I'm not going to lie, I wasn't a birthday party. He
had gotten married two weeks ahead. I was mad. And I
went. I had a lovely time. But holy cow. And he
wanted the next little preacher to marry him.
That's how the preacher loved him so much. He just
wouldn't do it because his man's daddy was raised
insane. But I had a lovely time. I'm just going to
wipe now.